# Prepare

## Project structure

Like most Fletcher projects, this example project contains software (host application) and hardware (accelerator functional unit) sources.

## Software

The host application consists of a single C++ source file that contains the host application that interacts with the accelerator. A CMake file is included that can be used to build the application. Instructions are available in the simulate and hardware sections.

## Hardware

The hardware directory contains a number of important files.

- `sv`
  - `ofs_plat_afu.sv`: this is the platform specific top-level that wraps the top-level generated by Fletcher
- `vhdl`
  - `primmap.vhd`: this is the primmap kernel. It adds one to all elements of the input batch and writes the result to the output batch.
- `generate.py`: an example python script to generate an Arrow recordbatch file with some numbers that the accelerator will add and the output schema.
- `sources.txt`: a list of sources that are used by the tools to discover the required files.
- `primmap.json`: contains information about the accelerator that is used by the tools. The `accelerator-type-uuid` is used by the host application for discovery.
- `primmap.mmio.yml`: a custom [`vhdmmio`](https://github.com/abs-tudelft/vhdmmio) input file. Needed because currently Fletchgen does not support generating compatible MMIO files for this platform.
- `primmap.ext.yml`: a set of custom signals that are added to the design by fletchgen.

The first step is to use [`fletchgen`](https://github.com/abs-tudelft/fletcher) to generate the required hardware to wrap the sum kernel.

Start by starting a new container from the root of the example.

```
cd fletcher-opae/examples/primmap/
docker run -it --rm -v `pwd`:/src ias:1.2.1
```

Generate an input recordbatch file and the output schema using the provided `generate.py` Python script.

```
python3 generate.py
```

This script generates the `in.rb` and `out.as` files.

Then run Fletchgen on the mounted source folder.

```
cd /src/hw
fletchgen -n primmap -r in.rb -i out.as -l vhdl --mmio64 --mmio-offset 64 -e primmap.ext.yml --axi
```

Because Fletchgen currently does not support generating MMIO files for this platform run `vhdmmio` on the provided MMIO yaml file.

```
vhdmmio -V vhdl -P vhdl primmap.mmio.yml
```

You can now `exit` the container and inspect the generated files.
